# Single Letter Professional Profiles

## Introduction
A Single Letter Professional Profile, or Letter-Shaped Skills, are the summary of an individual's professional competencies as the shape of a particular letter. It is a most curious and turse description of a skillset, as it awnsers the odd question of: "If we had to define a person's distribution of skills as the shape of a single letter, which letter would it be?" The term originated with so-called "T-Shaped Skills", which mean a skillset sufficiently well equipped in a varied of domains, but very much specialized in one single area of expertise. It is also commonly stated that developing a professional profile with such a shape is advantageous as a career strategy. Thus, it is worthwhile to further investigate the "shape of skills", and whether we can come up with any types of classifications other than the original "T-Shaped Skills".

## The Shape of Skills
To understand this analogy, one must look at the shape of the letter "T", which originated the metaphor: it is horizontal at the top, and has a deep vertical stroke in the middle. Therefore, if we define the "top of the letter" as abilities in which an individual has relatively low competence, and the "bottom of the letter" as those in which they are more specialized, then the symbolism of "T-Shaped Skills" is very straightfoward: we must only think of the space a character occupies as a two-dimensional graph, where each competency is disposed on the horizontal axis, and the individual's proficiency with them is represented on the vertical axis (as their "depth", or mastery, of each skill). That is, the x axis is a discrete categorical axis, on which various abilities are disposed. And the y axis is the inverse of competence (the further from the top, the higher the skill level).

### Viable Letters
Not every letter can be used to describe a skillset, for many characters have parallel horizontal strokes, which cause ambiguity with regards to competence. For example, the letter "E" has three parallel horizontal strokes, and thus we cannot derive an individual's skill level from this letter, as each competency (represented as a *locus* on the "horizontal axis") has at least three corresponding levels on the "vertical (competence) axis". Therefore, such a letter would imply that a person is both poorly and well equipped in the very same skill. But, of course, this is a contradiction. It is analogous to definition of *function* in the mathematical sense: it cannot have more than one output per input.

However, it is also obvious that the very letter which originated the concept of "letter-shaped skills" to begin with -- that is "T" -- does not, itself, fully satisfy this requirement. For in the letter "T" the individual's speciality, in which they're highly qualified, is matched by infinite points on the "vertical axis" (i.e. by the letter's vertical stroke). We must, then, by defition, allow for an exception to the "functional" rule above in the case of vertical strokes and alike. And, so, in such cases, an individual's skill level should be defined as the lowest point on the letter's vertical stroke.